Seed ecology of European mesic meadows
================

Eduardo Fernández-Pascual<sup>1,2</sup> <sup>+</sup>, Madalena
Vaz<sup>3</sup>, Beatriz Morais<sup>2</sup>, Ramón Reiné<sup>4</sup>,
Joaquín Ascaso<sup>4</sup>, Elías Afif Khouri<sup>5</sup>, Angelino
Carta<sup>6</sup>

<sup>1</sup> IMIB – Biodiversity Research Institute, University of
Oviedo, Mieres, Spain; <sup>2</sup> Departamento de Biología de
Organismos y Sistemas, Universidad de Oviedo, Oviedo/Uviéu, Spain;
<sup>3</sup> Banco Português de Germoplasma Vegetal, Instituto Nacional
de Investigação Agrária e Veterinária (INIAV), Braga, Portugal;
<sup>4</sup> Departamento de Ciencias Agrarias y Medio Natural,
Universidad de Zaragoza, Huesca, Spain; <sup>5</sup> Agroforestry
Engineering Area, Department of Organisms and Systems Biology,
Polytechnic School of Mieres, University of Oviedo, 33600 Mieres,
Asturias, Spain; <sup>6</sup> Dipartimento di Biologia, Botany Unit,
University of Pisa, Pisa, Italy

<sup>+</sup> Correspondence: IMIB – Biodiversity Research Institute,
University of Oviedo, Edificio de Investigación – 5ª planta, C/ Gonzalo
Gutiérrez Quirós s/n 33600 Mieres, Spain. Email:
<fernandezpeduardo@uniovi.es>. Telephone: +34 985103000.

# ABSTRACT

  - **Background and Aims** European mesic meadows are semi-natural open
    habitats of high biodiversity and an essential part of European
    landscapes. These species-rich communities can be a source of seed
    mixes for ecological restoration, urban greening and rewilding.
    However, limited knowledge of species germination traits is a
    bottleneck to the development of a competitive native seed industry.
    Here, we synthesize the seed ecology of mesic meadows.
  - **Methods** We combined our own experimental data with data obtained
    from databases to create a combined dataset containing 2,005
    germination records of 90 plant species from 31 European countries.
    We performed a Bayesian meta-analysis of this dataset to test the
    seed germination response to environmental cues including
    scarification, stratification, temperature, alternating temperature
    and light. We also used multivariate ordination to check the
    relationship between seed traits (germination and morphology) and
    species ecological preferences, and to compare the seed ecology of
    mesic meadows with that of other herbaceous plant communities from
    the same area.
  - **Key Results** The seed ecology of mesic meadows is characterized
    by (1) high seed germinability when compared to other herbaceous
    plant communities; (2) low correspondence between seed traits and
    species ecological preferences; and (3) a deep phylogenetic
    separation between the two major families, Poaceae and Fabaceae.
    Poaceae produce many light seeds which respond to gap-detecting
    germination cues (alternating temperatures and light); Fabaceae
    produce fewer heavy seeds, which need scarification to break their
    physical dormancy.
  - **Conclusions** High germinability of meadow seeds will reduce their
    capacity to form persistent seed banks, resulting in dispersal
    limitations to passive regeneration. For centuries, human activities
    have shaped the regeneration of meadows, leading to a loss of seed
    dormancy and decoupling seeds from seasonal cycles, as has been
    found in many domesticated species. The same anthropic processes
    that have shaped semi-natural mesic meadows have left them dependent
    on continued human intervention for their regeneration, highlighting
    the importance of active restoration via seed supply.

# KEYWORDS

*Arrhenatheretalia*, *Arrhenatherion*, Asteraceae, Fabaceae,
domestication, hay meadows, mesic grasslands, Poaceae, seed germination,
seed morphology, semi-natural, species-rich meadows

# INTRODUCTION

The mesic meadows of Europe are semi-natural open habitats that occupy
clearings created by human intervention over a temperate wooded
landscape (Poschlod *et al.* [2009](#ref-RN5033); Hejcman *et al.*
[2013](#ref-RN5045)), in sites with moderately fertile and well-drained
soils (Mucina *et al.* [2016](#ref-RN4698)). These novel anthropogenic
plant communities, with a composite flora made up of species from
different ecological backgrounds, have constantly changed in response to
shifts in human society and associated management practices (Chytrý
[2012](#ref-RN5035); Hejcman *et al.* [2013](#ref-RN5045)), but
nonetheless characterise Europe’s natural history (Finck *et al.*
[2002](#ref-RN4996)).

Traditional classification of mesic grasslands emphasises the separation
between meadows used for hay making versus pastures maintained by
grazing, but a recent revision at the European level showed that the
main driver of variation in species composition is the intensity rather
than the type of management (Rodríguez-Rojo *et al.*
[2017](#ref-RN4893)). Indeed, changes in the intensity of management,
including land abandonment and agricultural intensification, are
threatening the maintenance of mesic meadows in large parts of Europe
(Carboni *et al.* [2015](#ref-RN4997)). For this reason, the European
Habitats Directive (92/43/EEC) lists as habitats of conservation
interest those species-rich meadows that are traditionally managed by
one or two annual cuts and light grazing.

One of the reasons for the high conservation interest of traditional
mesic meadows is their high species richness, and for this same reason
they have been highlighted as a valuable source of natural seed material
to be used in ecological restoration, rewilding and urban greening
(Krautzer *et al.* [2013](#ref-RN5031); Haslgrübler *et al.*
[2014](#ref-RN4894); Golińska *et al.* [2017](#ref-RN5030)). However, a
lack of knowledge about species germination traits has already been
identified as a bottleneck (Ladouceur *et al.* [2018](#ref-RN2241))
hampering the development of a competitive native seed industry (De
Vitis *et al.* [2017](#ref-RN4665)) in Europe. Understanding seed
germination is part of the practical scientific framework needed to
tackle large-scale ecological restoration challenges (Merritt and Dixon
[2011](#ref-RN3507)) and to maintain *ex situ* collections of plant
genetic resources (Li and Pritchard [2009](#ref-RN3763)). When such
knowledge is available, ambitious regional schemes of seed-based
landscape restoration can be designed (Jiménez-Alfaro *et al.*
[2020](#ref-RN4666)).

Mesic meadows are dominated by mesophilous grasses of the family
Poaceae, which make up most of the biomass in the community and define
the structure of the vegetation. The dispersal unit in Poaceae is
generally the floret (**Fig. 1a**), a composite structure made up of the
caryopsis or grain (a dry, indehiscent and monospermic fruit) and its
surrounding bracts (i.e. modified leaves): the lemma and the palea.
Removal of the lemma and palea, as well as puncturing the pericarp, can
aid in seed germination (Probert *et al.* [1985](#ref-RN1248)). The
dispersal unit often carries awns or hairs (**Fig. 1b**) that are
assumed to aid dispersal, although it is not always the case that they
do (Schonfeld and Chancellor [1983](#ref-RN1290)). Several genera of
Poaceae that grow in European meadows show seed heteromorphism (see
e.g. *Aegilops*, *Avena*, *Dasypirum*, *Poa*) (Guzzon *et al.*
[2018](#ref-RN5063)). They produce different seed morphs characterized
by different seed traits in terms of dormancy, longevity, morphology,
phenology, tolerance to abiotic stresses and susceptibility to
predation. This is connected to bet hedging ecological strategies,
typical of ruderal/disturbed habitats. Regarding germination, meadow
Poaceae seeds have been reported as having physiological seed dormancy
in various degrees (Sprague [1940](#ref-RN5018); Dixon
[1995](#ref-RN5024); Baskin and Baskin [2014](#ref-RN3214)), but
germinability is usually high even without treating the seeds with cold
stratification (Grime *et al.* [1981](#ref-RN3273); Schonfeld and
Chancellor [1983](#ref-RN1290); Williams
[1983](#ref-RN1281)[a](#ref-RN1281); Bean *et al.* [1984](#ref-RN1260);
Froud-Williams *et al.* [1984](#ref-RN1271), [1986](#ref-RN1229);
Froud-Williams and Ferris [1987](#ref-RN1205); Dixon
[1995](#ref-RN5024); Pérez-Fernández and Rodríguez-Echeverría
[2003](#ref-RN789); Pérez-Fernández *et al.* [2006](#ref-RN680);
Stanisavljevic *et al.* [2011](#ref-RN398), [2015](#ref-RN223); Oliveira
*et al.* [2012](#ref-RN372); Wille *et al.* [2013](#ref-RN334)). Freshly
harvested seeds are comparatively more dormant than stored seeds, but
dormancy tends to disappear quickly in dry storage (Sprague
[1940](#ref-RN5018); Dixon [1995](#ref-RN5024)). Germination has been
reported to occur at temperatures ranging from 5 to 30 ºC (Grime *et
al.* [1981](#ref-RN3273); Williams [1983](#ref-RN1292)[b](#ref-RN1292);
Pannangpetch and Bean [1984](#ref-RN1261); Froud-Williams *et al.*
[1986](#ref-RN1229); Probert *et al.* [1986](#ref-RN1230); Dixon
[1995](#ref-RN5024)). Most Poaceae species have also been reported to
germinate better in light than in darkness (Williams
[1983](#ref-RN1292)[b](#ref-RN1292); [c](#ref-RN1280); Froud-Williams
*et al.* [1984](#ref-RN1271); Probert *et al.* [1985](#ref-RN1248),
[1986](#ref-RN1230); Probert and Smith [1986](#ref-RN1221); Thompson
[1989](#ref-RN1172); Dixon [1995](#ref-RN5024)) and even to be unable to
germinate in darkness (Froud-Williams *et al.* [1986](#ref-RN1229)).
Nonetheless, species of *Bromus* have been reported as germinating
better in darkness (Thompson [1989](#ref-RN1172)) and *Cynosurus
cristatus* as being indifferent to light/darkness (Williams
[1983](#ref-RN1292)[b](#ref-RN1292); [c](#ref-RN1280)). In *Poa
trivialis*, germination is promoted by light but not by diurnal
alternating temperatures (i.e. germination conditions where different
temperatures are applied during the day and the night, in diurnal
cycles) (Froud-Williams and Ferris [1987](#ref-RN1205)), although
alternating temperatures do encourage some germination in darkness
(Froud-Williams *et al.* [1986](#ref-RN1229)). Wild Poaceae ecotypes
usually have a germination response to alternating temperatures
(Schonfeld and Chancellor [1983](#ref-RN1290); Williams
[1983](#ref-RN1292)[b](#ref-RN1292); [c](#ref-RN1280); Pannangpetch and
Bean [1984](#ref-RN1261); Probert *et al.* [1985](#ref-RN1248),
[1986](#ref-RN1230); Probert and Smith [1986](#ref-RN1221); Thompson
[1989](#ref-RN1172)), although this response is missing in some wild
ecotypes and in the domesticated cultivars (Pannangpetch and Bean
[1984](#ref-RN1261)), and some species such as *Lolium perenne* have
been reported as insensitive to temperature alternation (Thompson *et
al.* [1977](#ref-RN1380); Williams [1983](#ref-RN1280)[c](#ref-RN1280)).

<div class="figure">

<img src="../results/figures/Fig1.png" alt="**Figure 1** Diversity of dispersal units in plant species from mesic meadows: (a) Floret of *Cynosurus cristatus* (Poaceae); (b) floret of *Arrhenatherum elatius* (Poaceae); (c) seed of *Lathyrus pratensis* (Fabaceae); (d) legume of *Onobrychis viciifolia* (Fabaceae); (e) loment fragment of *Ornithopus perpusillus* (Fabaceae); (f) achene with pappus of *Centaurea scabiosa* (Asteraceae); (g) achene of *Ranunculus acris* (Ranunculaceae); (h) nutlet of *Prunella grandiflora* (Lamiaceae); (i) achene of *Knautia nevadensis* (Dipsacaceae); (j) perigynium of *Carex binervis* (Cyperaceae); (k) receptacle of *Sanguisorba minor* (Rosaceae); (l) mericarp of *Carum verticillatum* (Apiaceae); (m) seed of *Cerastium fontanum* (Caryophyllaceae); (n) seed of *Plantago lanceolata* (Plantaginaceae); (o) seed of *Rhinanthus angustifolius* (Orobanchaceae)." width="1932" />

<p class="caption">

**Figure 1** Diversity of dispersal units in plant species from mesic
meadows: (a) Floret of *Cynosurus cristatus* (Poaceae); (b) floret of
*Arrhenatherum elatius* (Poaceae); (c) seed of *Lathyrus pratensis*
(Fabaceae); (d) legume of *Onobrychis viciifolia* (Fabaceae); (e) loment
fragment of *Ornithopus perpusillus* (Fabaceae); (f) achene with pappus
of *Centaurea scabiosa* (Asteraceae); (g) achene of *Ranunculus acris*
(Ranunculaceae); (h) nutlet of *Prunella grandiflora* (Lamiaceae); (i)
achene of *Knautia nevadensis* (Dipsacaceae); (j) perigynium of *Carex
binervis* (Cyperaceae); (k) receptacle of *Sanguisorba minor*
(Rosaceae); (l) mericarp of *Carum verticillatum* (Apiaceae); (m) seed
of *Cerastium fontanum* (Caryophyllaceae); (n) seed of *Plantago
lanceolata* (Plantaginaceae); (o) seed of *Rhinanthus angustifolius*
(Orobanchaceae).

</p>

</div>

Next in abundance to Poaceae are the legumes of the family Fabaceae.
Fabaceae species contribute to the nutritional value of meadow fodder,
as thanks to their N-fixating capabilities they have high N contents
(Reiné *et al.* [2020](#ref-RN5028); Álvarez *et al.*
[2021](#ref-RN5040)). The dispersal unit of most Fabaceae is the seed
itself (**Fig. 1c**) but in some species dispersal units are more
complex, including indehiscent monospermic fruits (e.g. *Onobrychis*,
**Fig. 1d**) or indehiscent monospermic fruit fragments, i.e. loments
(e.g. *Ornithopus*, **Fig. 1e**). Fabaceae are generally hard-seeded:
they have a water-impermeable seed coat which needs to become permeable
before germination can happen (i.e. physical seed dormancy) (Grime *et
al.* [1981](#ref-RN3273); Jones and Turkington [1986](#ref-RN1215);
Ehrman and Cocks [1996](#ref-RN5016); Kupferschmid *et al.*
[2000](#ref-RN3073); Baskin and Baskin [2014](#ref-RN3214)). In
*Medicago*, seeds that have not reached full maturity can germinate
before they become impermeable, but the completion of maturation imposes
coat impermeability, and thereafter the seed must be scarified to allow
water imbibition and germination (Gresta *et al.* [2007](#ref-RN652)).
Buried Fabaceae seeds can track the seasons, and in some species,
germination seems to be promoted by cold stratification and alternating
temperatures (Van Assche *et al.* [2003](#ref-RN780)); some of these
species have been described as having combinational dormancy
(i.e. physical + physiological) (Van Assche and Vandelook
[2010](#ref-RN5037)). However, Fabaceae seeds have also been reported to
germinate without any previous treatment (Marchiol *et al.*
[2000](#ref-RN881); Nikolic *et al.* [2007](#ref-RN632); Kabouw *et al.*
[2010](#ref-RN460); Oliveira *et al.* [2012](#ref-RN372)), and to lose
dormancy during storage (Van Assche and Vandelook [2010](#ref-RN5037)).
As in Poaceae, seeds of Fabaceae have been reported to germinate in high
numbers across a range of temperatures from 5 to 25 ºC (Grime *et al.*
[1981](#ref-RN3273); Gresta *et al.* [2007](#ref-RN652)). Fabaceae seeds
have been described as not being responsive to light and as capable of
germinating in darkness (Silvertown [1980](#ref-RN1339); Grime *et al.*
[1981](#ref-RN3273)).

Poaceae and Fabaceae are accompanied by a diversity of other families
which, even if present in lower abundances, contribute to the high
biodiversity of the system and increase the aesthetic value of the
meadows as perceived by people (Southon *et al.* [2017](#ref-RN5039);
Chollet *et al.* [2018](#ref-RN5038)). They also add nutritional scope
for livestock, being richer than Poaceae and Fabaceae in specific
elements (Reiné *et al.* [2020](#ref-RN5028); Álvarez *et al.*
[2021](#ref-RN5040)). In many of these families (e.g. Asteraceae,
Cyperaceae, Dipsacaceae, Lamiaceae, Polygonaceae, Ranunculaceae) the
dispersal unit is the achene: dry, indehiscent and monospermic fruits.
The morphology of these achenes is varied: cypselae with a hairy pappus
in *Centaurea* (Asteraceae, **Fig. 1f**); beaked in *Ranunculus*
(Ranunculaceae, **Fig. 1g**); hardened nutlets in *Prunella* (Lamiaceae,
**Fig. 1h**); hairy and with an elaiosome in *Knautia* (Dipsacaceae,
**Fig. 1i**); surrounded by a perigynium which aids in dispersal by
water in *Carex* (Cyperaceae, **Fig. 1j**). In the genus *Sanguisorba*
(Rosaceae), the dispersal unit is the urn-shaped receptacle containing
one to three achenes (**Fig. 1k**). In Apiaceae, it is the mericarp
(**Fig. 1l**), an indehiscent monospermic fragment of the fruit. In some
other minor families, the dispersal unit is the seed itself, such as in
Caryophyllaceae (**Fig. 1m**), Plantaginaceae (**Fig. 1n**), Juncaceae
or the hemiparasitic species of *Rhinanthus* (Orobanchaceae) (**Fig.
1o**). In Asteraceae, high germination without previous treatments has
been reported in *Taraxacum officinale* (Mezynski and Cole
[1974](#ref-RN1428); Washitani [1984](#ref-RN1276); Noronha
[1997](#ref-RN963); Benvenuti and Pardossi [2016](#ref-RN194); Masin *et
al.* [2017](#ref-RN120)), *Hypochaeris radicata* (Oomes and Elberse
[1976](#ref-RN1403); Benvenuti and Pardossi [2016](#ref-RN194)) and
*Achillea millefolium* (Oomes and Elberse [1976](#ref-RN1403)).
*Taraxacum officinale* germinates between 5 and 30 ºC (Mezynski and Cole
[1974](#ref-RN1428); Washitani [1984](#ref-RN1276); Masin *et al.*
[2017](#ref-RN120)) and has higher germination in light (Thompson
[1989](#ref-RN1172); Letchamo and Gosselin [1996](#ref-RN1015); Noronha
[1997](#ref-RN963)) and in alternating temperatures (Mezynski and Cole
[1974](#ref-RN1428)). In *Stachys officinalis* (Lamiaceae), seeds need
either cold stratification, light or alternating temperatures to
germinate (Wagner *et al.* [2011](#ref-RN416); Kolodziejek *et al.*
[2017](#ref-RN128)). Underdeveloped embryos that need to grow inside the
seed before germination (i.e. morphological dormancy) are widespread in
Ranunculaceae and Apiaceae (Jauzein and Mansour [1992](#ref-RN1112);
Baskin and Baskin [2014](#ref-RN3214)). *Ranunculus repens*
(Ranunculaceae) germinates between 10 and 25 ºC, but the germination
percentages have been reported to be low (Harris *et al.*
[1998](#ref-RN931)); the same species has been reported to respond to
alternating temperatures, which can promote its germination even in
darkness (Thompson and Grime [1983](#ref-RN3180)). In Polygonaceae,
*Rumex acetosa* can germinate immediately after dispersal and between 7
and 27 ºC, while the congeneric *Rumex acetosella* does not: this
difference is due to the former being able to germinate at constant
temperatures in the darkness (Grime *et al.* [1981](#ref-RN3273); Van
Assche *et al.* [2002](#ref-RN814)), while the latter has an absolute
requirement for light (Van Assche *et al.* [2002](#ref-RN814)). In
*Heracleum sphondylium* (Apiaceae), growth of the embryo only occurs
below 10 ºC, in moist conditions (Jauzein and Mansour
[1992](#ref-RN1112)). *Sanguisorba minor* (Rosaceae) increases its
germination after abrasion of the seeds with bleach (Tavşanoğlu *et al.*
[2015](#ref-RN226); Benvenuti and Pardossi [2016](#ref-RN194)), although
germination without previous treatment has also been reported (Ludewig
*et al.* [2014](#ref-RN298); Tavşanoğlu *et al.* [2015](#ref-RN226)).
Seeds of the hemiparasitic species *Rhinanthus angustifolius* and
*Rhinanthus minor* (Orobanchaceae) require relatively long periods of
cold stratification to germinate (Ter Borg [2005](#ref-RN4014)) and can
germinate in the dark (Marin *et al.* [2019](#ref-RN2236)).

Although a wealth of studies has accumulated, a synthesis of the seed
ecology of European mesic meadows is still missing. In this article, we
review for the first time this topic to provide an overview of traits
related to plant regeneration by seed, as a knowledge basis to expand
our understanding of meadow communities and assist in their management
by conservation and restoration practitioners. We combine newly
generated data on seed morphology and germination with records from
existing databases (Kleyer *et al.* [2008](#ref-RN2319); Royal Botanic
Gardens, Kew [2017](#ref-RN2987); Fernández-Pascual
[2021](#ref-RN4968)). The resulting dataset contains 2,005 germination
records of 90 plant species from 31 European countries. We use this
dataset to test the seed germination response to environmental cues
including scarification, stratification, temperature, alternating
temperature and light, applying Bayesian meta-analysis (Pappalardo *et
al.* [2020](#ref-RN5000)). Further, using well-preserved meadows of the
Iberian Peninsula as a study system, we analyse the covariation between
seed traits and species environmental preferences, and compare the
germination ecology of mesic meadows with that of other herbaceous plant
communities from the same geographic area.

# MATERIALS AND METHODS

## Data sources

### Selection of mesic meadow species

To create a list of representative European mesic meadow species for
inclusion in our analysis, we used the list of species provided by
Chytrý et al. ([2020](#ref-RN5061)) as dominant, constant and
diagnostic species of the EUNIS habitats “low and medium altitude hay
meadows” and “mountain hay meadows”. This list included 120 species and
was used to test the response to germination cues at the European level
(see below).

To conduct further analyses at the Iberian level, we constructed a
second species list based on a dataset comprising 118 vegetation relevés
(i.e. records of plants species co-occurring in sampling plots) from
three Iberian regions with well-maintained mesic meadows: 43 relevés
from Northern Portugal, 25 from the Cantabrian Mountains of Spain and 50
from the Pyrenees. These relevés were used to assess variation in seed
responses along environmental gradients (i.e. the relationship between
species seed traits and species ecological requirements, see below), as
they were recorded along a major stress gradient related to summer
drought (Rodríguez-Rojo *et al.* [2014](#ref-RN2980)): the Pyrenees and
Cantabrian Mountains have a temperate macroclimate, whereas Northern
Portugal is transitional between the temperate and Mediterranean
macroclimates. Furthermore, meadows from the Pyrenees are closest to the
European optimum of mesic meadow vegetation while the Portuguese ones
are in suboptimal areas at the limit of the European distribution of
temperate meadows (Rodríguez-Rojo *et al.* [2017](#ref-RN4893)).
Finally, the traditional management of meadows (i.e. mowing for
haymaking once or twice per year plus light grazing) is relatively well
preserved in these three regions compared to their European context
(Prince *et al.* [2012](#ref-RN4998); Guadilla-Sáez *et al.*
[2019](#ref-RN4999)).

The Iberian meadows were maintained by traditional agricultural
practices: mowing for haymaking once or twice per year plus light
grazing. Each vegetation sampling plot was placed in a square area
(25-100 m<sup>2</sup> area) situated in the central part of the meadow,
avoiding the margins. Vegetation sampling took place in 2016-2017, at
the peak of plant development, just before mowing. All vascular plant
species in the plots were recorded and given a cover value using the
transformation of the Braun-Blanquet scale to coverage (+ = 0.1%, 1 =
5%, 2 = 17.5%, 3 = 37.5%, 4 = 62.5% and 5 = 87.5%). All plant names were
assigned following the nomenclature of Euro+Med ([2006](#ref-RN5044)),
which is used throughout this article. As expected, the vegetation of
the sampled meadows was dominated by Poaceae and Fabaceae: these two
families represented 47% and 17%, respectively, of the total plant cover
recorded in all the plots. Other 20 families were recorded, the largest
of which was Asteraceae; each of these other families represented less
than 10% of the total cover.

Using all the relevés, we calculated the cumulative cover of each
species in the entire area. To perform the calculation, first we
standardized the cover values of the plots by dividing the cover of each
species in each plot by the total plant cover in that plot. Then, for
each species, we calculated its total cover in the dataset, by summing
its standardized cover values from all the plots. Finally, we rescaled
the values of all species to a 1-100 scale to obtain the cumulative
cover values. From the resulting list of species, we removed 208 species
with cumulative cover values below 2%, considering them to be transient
species (Mariotte [2014](#ref-RN4977)) that might have been recorded by
chance and may not represent the core mesic meadows flora. We used the
remaining 116 species as the core list of Iberian meadow species. Most
of these species were hemicryptophytes (78%), with some therophytes
(16%) and a few chamaephytes and geophytes (3% of each). The family with
more species in the list was Poaceae (22%), with another 17% belonging
to Fabaceae, 15% to Asteraceae, 8% to Apiaceae, and the rest of the
families representing less than 5% each.

### Species ecological requirements

We also used the Iberian relevés as a basis to characterize the
preferences of the selected species for three environmental factors
(cold, summer drought and soil reaction) which have been found to be
major ecological drivers of mesic meadow plant diversity (Rodríguez-Rojo
*et al.* [2014](#ref-RN2980)). For cold and drought, we used the
coordinates of the plots to retrieve from CHELSA (Karger *et al.*
[2017](#ref-RN4766)) the bioclimatic variables bio06 (minimum
temperature of the coldest month) and bio14 (precipitation of the driest
month). For soil reaction (pH), we took from each plot five soil samples
from between 0 and 20 cm depth with a Dutch auger and combined them to
make a bulk soil horizon, which we subsequently air-dried, crumbled,
finely crushed and sieved with a 2 mm screen, to finally measure the pH
in H<sub>2</sub>O with a glass electrode in a suspension of soil:water
(1:2.5). With each of these three environmental variables (bio06, bio14,
pH) measured at the plot level we calculated the species niche centroids
(SNCs). The SNC for any given species and variable is the mean of the
environmental variable in all the plots where the species occurs,
weighted by species cover in each plot (Zelený [2018](#ref-RN4709)).

### Seed morphology

From the vegetation plots described above, we collected dispersal units
(hereafter called seeds) during the dispersal seasons of 2016, 2017 and
2018. Seed collection followed the methodology of ENSCONET
([2009](#ref-RN2907)). To describe seed morphology, we acquired images
of 100-seed samples of each species using a flatbed scanner (Brother
LC985) with a resolution of 200 dpi and a scanning area of 1024 x 1024
pixels (Bacchetta *et al.* [2008](#ref-RN2678)). We distributed the
seeds on the transparent glass of the scanner, in a 10 x 10 grid. For
each sample, and without moving the seeds, we repeated the scan with
black and white backgrounds. In the case of the black background, we
covered samples with a black box to avoid interference from
environmental light. For the white background, we used the scanner
cover. We digitized the obtained images and stored them in JPEG format
(Joint Photographic Experts Group). We processed the scanned images
using *ImageJ*, an open-source image processing program designed for
scientific multidimensional images (Schneider *et al.*
[2012](#ref-RN4708)). The program calculates several biometric
parameters for each seed on the sample, and among those we chose seed
length and width. Additionally, we retrieved species values of seed mass
from the Seed Information Database (Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew
[2017](#ref-RN2987)) and of seed number at the individual/ramet level
from the LEDA database (Kleyer *et al.* [2008](#ref-RN2319)). The
dataset with the length and width measures is available at GitHub (see
Data Availability Statement).

### Seed germination

We constructed a germination dataset by combining the results of our own
germination experiments with Iberian seeds, and records of seed
germination of meadow seeds from across Europe.

We germinated the collected Iberian seeds using three germination
treatments to determine the germination response to temperatures that
are representative of the study area: 14/4 ºC representing the capacity
of freshly-dispersed seeds to germinate at cool temperatures of spring
and autumn, 22/12 ºC as summer temperature, and 30/20 ºC as sun-heated
soil, e.g. soil exposed to sun after hay cutting. Additionally, we
compared, for each of these temperature regimes, the germination of
fresh seeds versus seeds subjected to a dormancy-breaking treatment.
This treatment was adjusted to the most probable dormancy type per
taxonomic group (Baskin and Baskin [2014](#ref-RN3214)). In the case of
Fabaceae and other families that might present physical dormancy (Baskin
and Baskin [2014](#ref-RN3214)), the treatment consisted in
scarification by chipping the seed coat with a scalpel. For the rest of
the families, we used gibberellic acid GA<sub>3</sub> (0.0645 mM) in
darkness during 24h, as a treatment to remove potential physiological
seed dormancy (Blandino *et al.* [2019](#ref-RN4976)). For each species
and treatment, we sowed four Petri dishes with 25 seeds each. The
germination substrate was 1% distilled water - agar. We sealed dishes
with Parafilm to prevent desiccation. Trials took place in a germination
chamber (KBW 400, Binder GmbH, Tuttlingen, Germany) with a 12/12-hour
photoperiod (the light period corresponding to the higher temperature).
Experiments lasted for four weeks, with germination scoring once per
week. The germination criterion was 2 mm radicle emergence. After four
weeks, we cut the seeds that failed to germinate and examined them under
a magnifying glass. We classified them as normal when the embryo was
visible and firm, empty when they lacked an embryo, and contaminated
when they were mouldy. We only considered normal seeds when calculating
germination proportions and conducting subsequent analyses.

In addition to this experimental germination data, we retrieved European
seed germination records for the European list of study species from
ENSCOBASE, the seed germination database of the European Native Seed
Conservation Network (<http://enscobase.maich.gr/index.tml>); and the
*SylvanSeeds* database of seed germination records for the nemoral biome
(Fernández-Pascual [2021](#ref-RN4968)). These new records included
additional records of species in our experimental dataset, plus records
of new species absent from our experimental dataset, and in all cases
corresponded to seed lots originally collected within Europe. The
combined dataset, including our own experimental data and the records
from ENSCOBASE and *SylvanSeeds*, contained 90 species (i.e. 90% of the
core list of meadow species was covered) and 2,005 germination records
(i.e. germination proportions for a given seed lot of a species,
recorded in a set of laboratory experimental conditions) from 31
European countries. Overall, 156,252 seeds had been used in the
experiments. The range of experimental germination temperatures
(weighted average of the daily thermoperiod) which had been used in the
experiments spanned from 2 to 31 ºC, with 1,226 records of constant
temperatures (i.e. experiments that used the same temperature during all
their duration) and 779 of alternating temperatures (i.e. experiments
where different temperatures were applied during the day and the night,
in diurnal cycles). Seeds had been exposed to light during some part of
the diurnal cycle in 1,907 records or kept in total darkness in 98
records. Experiments had been performed with unstratified seeds
(i.e. not subjected to a previous dormancy-breaking incubation) in
1,726 records and with stratified seeds (i.e. subjected to previous
incubation in dormancy-breaking conditions, including treatments of wet
incubation under cold, warm and combinations of cold and warm
conditions) in 279 records. There were 262 records where GA<sub>3</sub>
had been applied, and 369 records where seeds had been scarified.

Finally, to compare the germination of mesic meadow species with that of
other herbaceous communities, we retrieved data from previous works on
the seed germination ecology of bogs and fens (Fernández-Pascual *et
al.* [2013](#ref-RN3480); Fernández-Pascual [2016](#ref-RN3212)), alpine
and subalpine grasslands (Eduardo Fernández-Pascual and Jiménez-Alfaro
*et al.* [2017](#ref-RN2371)), and coastal plant communities of rocky
cliffs and sand dunes (Eduardo Fernández-Pascual and Pérez-Arcoiza *et
al.* [2017](#ref-RN2865)). These additional germination records had been
obtained using the same experimental methodology as the one employed for
some of the germination experiments of this study: recently collected
seeds, untreated for physiological dormancy (but scarified in the cases
of families known for having physical dormancy), had been subjected to
three germination thermoperiods (14/4, 22/12, 30/20 ºC). All seeds had
been collected in the Cantabrian Mountains of Spain or the neighbouring
coast. We combined these records with the records with matching
experimental conditions from the meadows germination dataset to create a
Cantabrian dataset.

## Statistical analysis

We conducted all analyses in R (R Core Team [2020](#ref-RN2315)), and
the code for analysis and creation of the figures and manuscript is
available at GitHub (see Data Availability Statement).

### Seed responses to germination cues

We used the European germination dataset (available at GitHub, see Data
Availability Statement) to test the effect of germination treatments on
seed germination proportions. The used dataset included 2,005
germination records of 90 species; of these, 222 records came from our
own experimental data and the rest from the databases. We performed a
meta-analysis (Pappalardo *et al.* [2020](#ref-RN5000)) of the
germination dataset by fitting binomial generalized mixed models with
Bayesian estimation (Markov Chain Monte Carlo generalized linear mixed
models, MCMCglmms) (Fernández-Pascual *et al.* [2021](#ref-RN4965))
using the R package *MCMCglmm* (Hadfield [2010](#ref-RN4755)). We fitted
four models: (1) to the entire dataset; and separately for each of the
three botanical groups of mesic meadows: (2) Poaceae, (3) Fabaceae, and
(4) a third group including the rest of the families. To account for the
effect of a shared phylogenetic history in species traits, models
included as a random effect a reconstructed phylogenetic tree of the
study species. We created the phylogeny using the R package
*V.PhyloMaker* (Jin and Qian [2019](#ref-RN4753)) which contains an
updated mega-tree of the seed plants based on Smith & Brown
([2018](#ref-RN4754)). We placed taxa absent from the mega-tree at the
genus-level basal node. The phylogenetic tree is available at GitHub
(see Data Availability Statement). The response variable of the models
was the proportion of germinated seeds. The fixed effects were the
germination treatments (scarification, stratification, GA<sub>3</sub>,
temperature, alternating temperature and light). Random effects included
the phylogenetic tree, species identity, seed lot and source of the
data. In all models, fixed effect variables were scaled so their
contribution to the effect sizes could be compared. We used weakly
informative priors in all models, with parameter-expanded priors for the
random effects. Each model was run for 500,000 MCMC steps, with an
initial burn-in phase of 50,000 and a thinning interval of 50 (De
Villemereuil and Nakagawa [2014](#ref-RN4756)), resulting, on average,
in 9,000 posterior distributions. From the resulting posterior
distributions, we calculated mean parameter estimates and 95% Highest
Posterior Density (HPD) and Credible Intervals (CI). We estimated the
significance of model parameters by examining CIs, considering
parameters with CIs overlapping with zero as non-significant. To
estimate the phylogenetic signal in the models we used Pagels’s lambda
(λ) (Pagel [1999](#ref-RN4757)), estimated simultaneously with the
models by calculating the mean of the posterior distribution and the 95%
CI of λ as indicated by De Villemereuil et al. ([2014](#ref-RN4756)).
When λ = 0, related taxa are no more similar than expected by chance,
while when λ = 1, the trait is evolving following a constant variance
random walk or Brownian motion model; intermediate values of λ indicate
a phylogenetic correlation in trait evolution that does not fully follow
a Brownian motion model (Pagel [1999](#ref-RN4757)). The detailed output
of the models is available at GitHub (see Data Availability Statement).

### Seed traits vs. species environmental preferences

We used the Iberian dataset (available at GitHub, see Data Availability
Statement) to check whether seed traits and plant ecological preferences
were related. The used dataset contained 76 species with complete trait
data for seed germination, seed morphology and ecological requirements.
We did a Principal Component Analysis (PCA) of seed traits and species
SNCs for cold, drought and pH. We performed the PCA ordination at the
species level, i.e. calculating a series of continuous seed traits for
each species. We transformed the final germination proportions to create
a continuous variable for the germination cues (i.e. stratification,
scarification, temperature, alternating temperatures and light). To do
so, for each cue and species, we calculated a weighted average of the
cue levels (in the case of temperature, cue levels were the temperature
treatments; for the other cues, the levels were 0 = absence and 1 =
presence), weighting by the germination proportion at each level. This
approach underrepresents the importance of the levels that had not been
tested for a given species, but can serve as a proxy of the response to
the germination cues when visualized across the whole dataset. We also
included seed mass and seed number in the ordination (species average
values). We left GA<sub>3</sub> out of the PCA because its ecological
interpretation is subordinated to stratification (as both cues break
physiological seed dormancy). We also left seed length and width out
because these values were not available for enough species. We
calculated the PCA with the package *FactoMineR* (Lê *et al.*
[2008](#ref-RN3166)).

### Germination in meadows vs. other habitats

We used the Cantabrian dataset (available at GitHub, see Data
Availability Statement) to compare the germination of mesic meadows with
that of other herbaceous communities from the same region. The
Cantabrian dataset included 131 plant species. We analysed this dataset
by PCA.

# RESULTS

## Seed morphology

Poaceae had lower values of seed mass and higher values of seed number,
while Fabaceae had heavier but fewer seeds (**Fig. 2**). The other
families covered the range of values showed by Poaceae and Fabaceae, but
their median values were high for both traits: their median seed mass
was close to that of the Fabaceae, while their median seed number was
higher than that of the Poaceae (**Fig. 2**). Seed shape also showed a
divergence between Poaceae and Fabaceae, with seeds being elongated in
the former and round in the latter (**Fig. 2**). The other families
covered the full range of variation, with both elongated and round seeds
(**Fig. 2**).

<div class="figure">

<img src="../results/figures/Fig2.png" alt="**Figure 2** Morphology of mesic meadow seeds. The two panels on the left show the probability densities of species values for seed mass and seed number, log-transformed for ease of visualization. The three horizontal lines within the probability densities represent the first quartile, the median and the third quartile of the values. The panel on the right shows values of seed length and width obtained by image analysis, with each point being a seed. In all cases, data is divided between the grasses (Poaceae), legumes (Fabaceae) and the other plant families." width="4086" />

<p class="caption">

**Figure 2** Morphology of mesic meadow seeds. The two panels on the
left show the probability densities of species values for seed mass and
seed number, log-transformed for ease of visualization. The three
horizontal lines within the probability densities represent the first
quartile, the median and the third quartile of the values. The panel on
the right shows values of seed length and width obtained by image
analysis, with each point being a seed. In all cases, data is divided
between the grasses (Poaceae), legumes (Fabaceae) and the other plant
families.

</p>

</div>

## Seed germination

When considering the full set of mesic meadow species, all the studied
germination cues except for stratification had a significant effect on
final germination proportions (**Fig. 3**). The germination of meadow
seeds was positively associated with scarification, GA<sub>3</sub>,
alternating temperatures, and light. Average temperature had a negative
effect, indicating a trend towards higher germination at lower
temperatures. Averaging the whole dataset, the highest germination
proportions were achieved at 20 ºC. Between 0 ºC and 20 ºC, germination
proportions increased steadily with increasing temperatures. Above 20
ºC, germination declined more sharply, and meadow seeds rarely
germinated at 30 ºC.

Some differences became apparent when dividing the dataset in the three
floristic groups that compose mesic meadow vegetation. In Poaceae
(**Fig. 3**), no effect was found for scarification, GA<sub>3</sub> or
temperature. Stratification had a negative effect on germination. The
major drivers of Poaceae germination appeared to be alternating
temperatures and light, with both having a positive effect. In Fabaceae
(**Fig. 3**), the largest positive effect on germination was produced by
scarification, with no effect of stratification, GA<sub>3</sub>,
alternating temperatures or light. Temperature had a negative effect,
and in fact Fabaceae species had higher germination proportions at
temperatures under 20 ºC. Finally, in the remaining families (**Fig.
3**), the main cues having a positive effect on germination were
GA<sub>3</sub>, alternating temperatures and light. These species did
not respond to scarification, stratification or average temperatures.

<div class="figure">

<img src="../results/figures/Fig3.png" alt="**Figure 3** Germination cues in mesic meadows. Effect of germination cues simulated in the laboratory over the final germination proportions of mesic meadow seeds. Dots indicate the posterior mean of the effect size for each cue, and whiskers the 95% credible interval of the effect size. The line of zero-effect is shown: when a credible interval overlaps with the zero-effect line, the effect can be regarded as non-significant. In separate panels, the figure shows the results of a general model including data for all species, plus specific models for the three main botanical groups of mesic meadows: grasses (Poaceae), legumes (Fabaceae) and the other families." width="4086" />

<p class="caption">

**Figure 3** Germination cues in mesic meadows. Effect of germination
cues simulated in the laboratory over the final germination proportions
of mesic meadow seeds. Dots indicate the posterior mean of the effect
size for each cue, and whiskers the 95% credible interval of the effect
size. The line of zero-effect is shown: when a credible interval
overlaps with the zero-effect line, the effect can be regarded as
non-significant. In separate panels, the figure shows the results of a
general model including data for all species, plus specific models for
the three main botanical groups of mesic meadows: grasses (Poaceae),
legumes (Fabaceae) and the other families.

</p>

</div>

To describe the effects of the random factors, we will refer only to the
full model that included all species in the dataset. The strongest
effect was that of the phylogeny (mean = 5.42, CI = 2.91 - 8.2),
followed by the source of the data (mean = 3.06, CI = 1.43 - 5.13) and
the seed lot (mean = 1.28, CI = 0.94 - 1.64). The phylogenetic signal in
the germination responses was relatively high (λ = 0.68, CI = 0.57 -
0.79).

## Seed traits and species ecological preferences

PCA indicated a clear separation between environmental preferences and
seed traits, with each set of variables contributing to different axes
(**Fig. 4**). The first PCA axis explained 29% of the variation and was
related to environmental preferences. The variables with the largest
contribution to this first axis were soil reaction (pH), winter cold
(bio06) and summer rainfall (bio14). This horizontal axis separated (i,
left) species with preferences for sites with warm winter temperatures
from (ii, right) species with preferences for sites with high summer
rainfall and less acidic soils. Axis 2 explained 17% of the variability,
mostly related to seed traits. The main contributing variables were seed
mass, seed number and the germination response to scarification. This
axis separated (iii, bottom) Poaceae species that produce many seeds
with a positive germination response to alternating temperatures from
(iv, top) Fabaceae species that produce heavy seeds with a positive
response to scarification.

<div class="figure">

<img src="../results/figures/Fig4.png" alt="**Figure 4** Environment and seed traits are separate axis of variation in mesic meadows. Principal Component Analysis ordination of mesic meadow species considering their environmental preferences and their seed traits. Each point is a species, coloured by the three main botanical groups of mesic meadows: grasses (Poaceae), legumes (Fabaceae) and the other families. Labels indicate the contribution of the variables to the axes: grey-background labels for environmental preferences, and white-background labels for seed traits. Environmental preferences were calculated as species niche centroids (SNCs) for the minimal temperature of the coldest month (bio06), precipitation of the driest month (bio14), and soil pH. To calculate the SNCs, a vegetation dataset of mesic meadows of the Iberian Peninsula was used. The seed traits are seed mass and the germination relative indices for the response to scarification, stratification, average germination temperature (temperature), alternating temperature (alternating) and light. All environmental preferences aligned to the first axis, while seed traits aligned to the second axis, showing that environment and seed traits are separate axis of variation in mesic meadows. Stratification and average germination temperature showed very low variation, in accordance with their small effect on Figure 2." width="4086" />

<p class="caption">

**Figure 4** Environment and seed traits are separate axis of variation
in mesic meadows. Principal Component Analysis ordination of mesic
meadow species considering their environmental preferences and their
seed traits. Each point is a species, coloured by the three main
botanical groups of mesic meadows: grasses (Poaceae), legumes (Fabaceae)
and the other families. Labels indicate the contribution of the
variables to the axes: grey-background labels for environmental
preferences, and white-background labels for seed traits. Environmental
preferences were calculated as species niche centroids (SNCs) for the
minimal temperature of the coldest month (bio06), precipitation of the
driest month (bio14), and soil pH. To calculate the SNCs, a vegetation
dataset of mesic meadows of the Iberian Peninsula was used. The seed
traits are seed mass and the germination relative indices for the
response to scarification, stratification, average germination
temperature (temperature), alternating temperature (alternating) and
light. All environmental preferences aligned to the first axis, while
seed traits aligned to the second axis, showing that environment and
seed traits are separate axis of variation in mesic meadows.
Stratification and average germination temperature showed very low
variation, in accordance with their small effect on Figure 2.

</p>

</div>

## Comparison with other habitats

Ordination resulted in a separation of mesic meadow species from plant
species belonging to natural herbaceous communities of the same region
(**Fig. 5**). Axis 1 explained 78% of the variance and was positively
associated with high germination at all three temperature treatments.
This horizontal axis separated (i, left) species with low germination
across treatments from (ii, right) species with high germinability
across treatments. The second axis explained 17% of the variation and
separated (iii, bottom) species that responded more to the cool
germination temperature from (iv, top) species that responded more to
the warm germination treatment. Meadow species tended to be situated in
the right sector of the ordination, indicating high germinability; and
at the centre of the vertical axis, indicating a neutral response to
temperature. On the other hand, species from the other communities were
positioned at the left of the horizontal axis, indicating a lower
germinability; and were more separated along the vertical axis,
indicating a preference for either warmer (bogs and fens) or cooler
(alpine grasslands, coastal communities) germination treatments.

<div class="figure">

<img src="../results/figures/Fig5.png" alt="**Figure 5** Higher germinability in mesic meadows compared to other herbaceous plant communities. Principal Component Analysis ordination of species responses to three seed germination treatments (fresh seeds germinated at 30/20, 22/12 and 14/4 ºC in a 12/12h light-darkness photoperiod). Species are grouped by their habitat, with points showing the centroid for each habitat group, and rays linking the centroid with the position of each species in the group. Labels indicate the contribution of the germination treatments to the axes. All species had been collected in herbaceous vegetation types of the Cantabrian Mountains of Spain and the neighbouring coast. All seeds were untreated, except for scarification, which was applied routinely to all botanical families presenting physical dormancy. Germination treatments consisted in 12/12 h periods with a warmer phase in light and a cooler phase in darkness. The position of mesic meadows compared to the other habitats indicates that their species tended to have higher germinability even if untreated (i.e. less seed dormancy) and were more neutral in their thermal requirements." width="4086" />

<p class="caption">

**Figure 5** Higher germinability in mesic meadows compared to other
herbaceous plant communities. Principal Component Analysis ordination of
species responses to three seed germination treatments (fresh seeds
germinated at 30/20, 22/12 and 14/4 ºC in a 12/12h light-darkness
photoperiod). Species are grouped by their habitat, with points showing
the centroid for each habitat group, and rays linking the centroid with
the position of each species in the group. Labels indicate the
contribution of the germination treatments to the axes. All species had
been collected in herbaceous vegetation types of the Cantabrian
Mountains of Spain and the neighbouring coast. All seeds were untreated,
except for scarification, which was applied routinely to all botanical
families presenting physical dormancy. Germination treatments consisted
in 12/12 h periods with a warmer phase in light and a cooler phase in
darkness. The position of mesic meadows compared to the other habitats
indicates that their species tended to have higher germinability even if
untreated (i.e. less seed dormancy) and were more neutral in their
thermal requirements.

</p>

</div>

# DISCUSSION

Our meta-analysis of germination records showed that the seed ecology of
mesic meadows is characterized by (1) high germinability when compared
to other herbaceous plant communities; (2) low correspondence between
seed trait variability and the natural environmental drivers of mesic
meadow diversity; and (3) a deep phylogenetic separation between the two
major families, Poaceae and Fabaceae.

We found that alternating temperatures and light are the two most
influential factors triggering germination in all taxonomic groups
except for Fabaceae. Alternating temperatures and light are usually
considered to be micro-environmental cues that indicate, at a fine
scale, the existence of safe sites for regeneration (Jumpponen *et al.*
[1999](#ref-RN4719)). The diurnal alternation of temperature decreases
with burial depth in the soil, and by the presence of vegetation cover
(Thompson *et al.* [1977](#ref-RN1380); Van Assche and Vanlerberghe
[1989](#ref-RN4910); Saatkamp *et al.* [2011](#ref-RN4952)). Thus, a
positive germination response to alternating temperatures could detect
the depth of seed burial and prevent the germination of seeds that are
buried too deep for seedlings to survive before emerging from the ground
(Bond *et al.* [1999](#ref-RN4898)). Perhaps more importantly in mesic
meadows, alternating temperatures could also indicate that the
vegetation cover has been diminished by either mowing or grazing,
marking an appropriate time for seedling regeneration, when the
competition by the established plants is lessened. Similar functions can
be ascribed to the germination response to light, as
physiologically-active light in significant amounts only travels the
uppermost millimetres of soil (Tester and Morris [1987](#ref-RN4909))
and the quality of light will be affected by vegetation cover
(Jankowska-Blaszczuk and Daws [2007](#ref-RN604)). Therefore, the
germination response to alternating temperatures and light indicates
conditions that are found immediately after mowing for haymaking, a
predictable perturbation that occurs approximately at the same time
every year, and which forces meadow plants to establish, grow and
reproduce in a regular time frame (Grime [2006](#ref-RN4887); Klimešová
*et al.* [2010](#ref-RN4888)). Theoretically, these germination traits
would also promote the formation of a transient soil seed bank (Williams
[1983](#ref-RN1292)[b](#ref-RN1292); Venn and Morgan
[2010](#ref-RN4929)). But it is worth mentioning that Poaceae, which
show the germination response to alternating temperatures and light,
also have the more elongated seed shape, a trait that is thought to
reduce the capacity of seeds to enter the soil seed bank in temperate
meadows (Thompson *et al.* [1993](#ref-RN5014); Funes *et al.*
[1999](#ref-RN5013)).

The strong effect of scarification was specifically related to the
hard-seeded Fabaceae. In this family, physical dormancy as a result of
an impermeable seed coat works as a mechanism to detect seasonal cycles
of temperature and humidity (Van Assche *et al.* [2003](#ref-RN780)). It
has been also proposed that physical dormancy can avoid seed predation,
by preventing the emission of olfactory cues that are elicited by seed
imbibition and that can be perceived by seed predators (Paulsen *et al.*
[2013](#ref-RN2568)). In the case of this study, Fabaceae seeds are
amongst the heaviest, and they clearly follow a separate regeneration
strategy from that of the other families. While other groups rely on
alternating temperatures and light as gap-detecting mechanisms, Fabaceae
seeds are regulated instead by scarification, while they also respond to
cooler temperatures than the rest of the families. This suggests that
Fabaceae seeds would tend to germinate when temperatures are cooler, and
thus before or after the summer haymaking season. Their larger size, and
the related larger reserves, could allow Fabaceae seedlings to emerge
from greater depths (Bond *et al.* [1999](#ref-RN4898)), e.g. when the
meadow grass is still high before mowing. Furthermore, larger seed size
also increases seed survival in cattle dung (Peco *et al.*
[2006](#ref-RN5050)) and thus improves the capacity of being dispersed
by animal depositions (Traba *et al.* [2003](#ref-RN5051)).

Seed germination responses to average temperatures and stratification
are understood to be a mechanism to track seasonal climatic cycles
(Finch-Savage and Leubner-Metzger [2006](#ref-RN3063)). Apart from the
response to cool temperatures in Fabaceae, the rest of the families did
not show a response to average temperatures, further highlighting their
reliance on micro-habitat and short-term cueing. Moreover, the dominant
family Poaceae showed a negative response to cold stratification. The
less frequent families, however, showed a divergence from the Poaceae
strategy: their positive response to GA<sub>3</sub>. GA<sub>3</sub> is a
phytohormone which can work as a substitute of cold stratification to
overcome physiological dormancy (Bewley *et al.* [2013](#ref-RN3368)).
The response to GA<sub>3</sub> indicates that the non-dominant species
have a degree of physiological dormancy, which could postpone their
germination until overwintering has occurred (Baskin and Baskin
[2014](#ref-RN3214)).

The strong phylogenetic signal in germination responses highlights the
phylogenetic clustering of regeneration strategies that we have
described so far: (1) The dominant family Poaceae shows a lack of
response to seasonal cues (average temperature and cold stratification).
Instead, Poaceae rely on large amounts of propagules and on detecting
micro-niche cues (alternating temperatures, light) that can be
associated to the yearly perturbation of mowing. (2) The second
most-dominant family, Fabaceae, does not respond to micro-niche cues,
and regulates germination timing through scarification and cooler
germination temperatures. Possibly, because their larger size and
reserves allow their seeds to decouple their emergence timing from the
mowing disturbance. (3) The minor families respond to micro-cues in a
similar way than Poaceae, but are differentiated from them by showing a
positive response to GA<sub>3</sub>, indicating that they rely on
physiological seed dormancy to track seasonal cycles. This third
strategy would allow to fine-tune their germination to the
micro-environmental conditions plus the inter-annual climatic variation.
Phylogenetic clustering is also apparent regarding seed shape, mass and
number, with Poaceae producing many elongated and light seeds, and
Fabaceae producing fewer, rounder and heavier seeds. The shape of
Poaceae seeds could make them particularly successful in attaching to
hay and dispersing with it, and Poaceae seeds tend to be overrepresented
in seed mixes obtained via haymaking (Scotton *et al.*
[2009](#ref-RN5046); Haslgrübler *et al.* [2014](#ref-RN4894)).
Asteraceae and Apiaceae, some of the most abundant among the minor
families, also tend to have shapes resembling those of Poaceae.

As we have seen, the regeneration strategy of high germinability appears
to be general in meadow species, across regional environmental
gradients. Seed traits usually show variation along environmental
gradients; some examples include warm-cued germination in species from
colder sites (Rosbakh and Poschlod [2015](#ref-RN2365)) or smaller seeds
in species from higher elevations (Wang *et al.* [2014](#ref-RN4912)).
Such relationships are missing in the hay meadows of the Iberian
Peninsula, highlighting the semi-natural character of this vegetation,
conditioned by human management as much as by environmental constraints.
To some extent, the lower germinability that we found in coastal
habitats, mires and alpine grasslands could be a result of the stressors
imposed by salinity, waterlogging and temperature extremes. At the same
time, the seed ecology of meadow species could be a response to the
potential selective force that is the predictable perturbation by yearly
mowing. Past research supports the relationship between mowing and
germination timing. In an abandoned meadow of the Swiss Prealps,
resuming mowing promoted germination and emergence, although natural
regeneration was limited due to a lack of seed dispersal to the site
(Kupferschmid *et al.* [2000](#ref-RN3073)). Mowing also promoted autumn
germination in a dry grassland of northern Germany (Kahmen and Poschlod
[2008](#ref-RN5025)). Past studies also agree with the lack of dormancy
and the high germinability of meadow seeds that we have found. For
example, meadow seeds of *Poa trivialis* were less dormant than seeds of
the same species collected in an arable field (Froud-Williams *et al.*
[1986](#ref-RN1229)). Ten Brink et al. ([2013](#ref-RN3570)), when
comparing congeneric herbaceous species from open grasslands or forest
habitats, found that species from the open grasslands needed less cold
stratification. Similarly, seeds collected from a hay meadow germinated
better when left untreated, rather than when being exposed to
dormancy-breaking treatments (Haslgrübler *et al.* [2014](#ref-RN4894)).
The high-germinability syndrome as a response to artificial selection by
mowing is indeed an intriguing hypothesis, and future work should be
designed to test it.

The high-germinability strategy, however, has the practical consequence
of greatly limiting the long-term seed bank persistence of mesic meadow
species: the soil seed bank has been reported as being transient in hay
meadows and related grasslands (Milberg [1992](#ref-RN5042); McDonald
[1993](#ref-RN5041); Hutchings and Booth [1996](#ref-RN5026)). In
Poland, the soil bank of a hay meadow was dominated by arable and weedy
forbs, with low representation of Poaceae and Fabaceae (Janicka
[2017](#ref-RN5032)). The inability to form persistent seed banks leads
to dispersal limitations to passive natural regeneration (Kupferschmid
*et al.* [2000](#ref-RN3073)), making mesic meadows quite sensitive to
land use change, and stressing the importance of active actions of
meadow restoration via seed supply.

Understanding the germination requirements of the different plant groups
that coexist in mesic meadows can help to manage, conserve and restore
their biological diversity. For centuries, human activities have shaped
the regeneration of hay meadows, and apparently this has led to a loss
of seed dormancy, decoupling seeds from seasonal cycles, as has been
found in many domesticated species (Dürr *et al.* [2015](#ref-RN4315)).
The same anthropic processes that have shaped semi-natural mesic meadows
may have left them dependent on continued human intervention for their
regeneration. The high germinability of meadow seeds makes them
relatively easy to use in restoration projects. But it also creates a
fascinating dilemma to the restoration practitioner: instead of sourcing
seed from existing – and seemingly domesticated – meadows, it could be
advisable to also source seeds from related wild populations of meadow
species, which may hold the genetic variability and phenotypic
plasticity to cope with the threats posed by new environmental
challenges (Parmesan and Hanley [2015](#ref-RN3766)).

# FUNDING

This work was supported by the European Regional Development Fund via
Interreg Europe \[SOS PRADERAS - SOE1/P5/E037\]; the Government of
Asturias and the FP7 – Marie Curie - COFUND programme of the European
Commission \[CLARÍN-ACB17-19 to E.F.P\]; and the Jardín Botánico
Atlántico \[SV-20-GIJON-JBA to E.F.P.\].

# AUTHOR CONTRIBUTIONS

All authors contributed data. E.F.P. conceived the study and performed
the analyses. E.F.P. wrote the manuscript with help from A.C. All
authors revised the manuscript and approved the final version.

# DATA AVAILABILITY

The original data, R code for the analysis and creation of the
manuscript can be accessed at the GitHub repository
<https://github.com/efernandezpascual/meadows>. A version of record of
the repository is deposited in Zenodo.

# LITERATURE CITED

<div id="refs">

<div id="ref-RN5040">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Álvarez J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Afif E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Díaz TE</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">García L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Oliveira JA</span>**. **2021**. Effects of
management practices on soil properties and plant nutrition in hay
meadows in Picos de Europa. *Environments* **8**: 38.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2678">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Bacchetta G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Grillo O</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mattana E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Venora G</span>**. **2008**.
Morpho-colorimetric characterization by image analysis to identify
diaspores of wild plant species. *Flora* **203**: 669–682.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3214">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Baskin CC</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Baskin JM</span>**. **2014**. *Seeds.
Ecology, Biogeography and Evolution of Dormancy and Germination. Second
Edition*. San Diego: Academic Press.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1260">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Bean EW</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Sengul S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Tyler BF</span>**. **1984**. The germination
of grass seeds after storage at different temperatures in aluminium foil
and manilla paper packets. *Annals of Applied Biology* **105**: 399–403.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN194">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Benvenuti S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pardossi A</span>**. **2016**. Germination
ecology of nutraceutical herbs for agronomic perspectives. *European
Journal of Agronomy* **76**: 118–129.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3368">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Bewley JD</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bradford K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hilhorst H</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Nonogaki H</span>**. **2013**. *Seeds:
Physiology of Development, Germination and Dormancy. 3rd Edition*.
Berlin - Heidelberg - New York: Springer.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4976">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Blandino C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Marin M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Vernet A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pritchard HW</span>**. **2019**. Seed
ecology of the geophyte *Conopodium majus* (Apiaceae), indicator species
of ancient woodland understories and oligotrophic meadows. *Plant
Biology* **21**: 487–497.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4898">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Bond WJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Honig M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Maze KE</span>**. **1999**. Seed size and
seedling emergence: an allometric relationship and some ecological
implications. *Oecologia* **120**: 132–136.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3570">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Brink D-J ten</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hendriksma HP</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bruun HH</span>**. **2013**. Habitat
specialization through germination cueing: a comparative study of herbs
from forests and open habitats. *Annals of Botany* **111**: 283–292.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4997">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Carboni M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dengler J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mantilla-Contreras J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Venn S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Török P</span>**. **2015**. Conservation
value, management and restoration of Europe’s semi-natural open
landscapes. *Hacquetia* **14**.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5038">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Chollet S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Brabant C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Tessier S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jung V</span>**. **2018**. From urban lawns
to urban meadows: Reduction of mowing frequency increases plant
taxonomic, functional and phylogenetic diversity. *Landscape and Urban
Planning* **180**: 121–124.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5035">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Chytrý M</span>**. **2012**. Vegetation of
the Czech Republic: diversity, ecology, history and dynamics. *Preslia*
**84**: 427–504.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5061">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Chytrý M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Tichý L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hennekens SM</span> *et al.*** **2020**.
EUNIS Habitat Classification: Expert system, characteristic species
combinations and distribution maps of European habitats. *Applied
Vegetation Science* **23**: 648–675.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4756">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">De Villemereuil P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Nakagawa S</span>**. **2014**. General
quantitative genetic methods for comparative biology In: *Modern
Phylogenetic Comparative Methods and their Application in Evolutionary
Biology*. Springer, 287–303.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4665">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">De Vitis M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Abbandonato H</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dixon KW</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Laverack G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bonomi C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pedrini S</span>**. **2017**. The European
native seed industry: characterization and perspectives in grassland
restoration. *Sustainability* **9**: 1682.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5024">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Dixon J</span>**. **1995**. *Trisetum
flavescens* (L.) Beauv.(*T. pratense* Pers., *Avena flavescens* L.).
*Journal of Ecology* **83**: 895–909.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4315">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Dürr C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dickie JB</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Yang XY</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pritchard HW</span>**. **2015**. Ranges of
critical temperature and water potential values for the germination of
species worldwide: Contribution to a seed trait database. *Agricultural
and Forest Meteorology* **200**: 222–232.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5016">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Ehrman T</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Cocks PS</span>**. **1996**. Reproductive
patterns in annual legume species on an aridity gradient. *Vegetatio*
**122**: 47–59.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2907">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">ENSCONET</span>**. **2009**. *Seed
Collecting Manual for Wild Species*. Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5044">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Euro+Med</span>**. **2006**. Euro+Med
PlantBase - the information resource for Euro-Mediterranean plant
diversity. Published on the Internet http://ww2.bgbm.org/EuroPlusMed/
(January 2019).

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3212">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>**. **2016**.
Comparative seed germination traits in bog and fen mire wetlands.
*Aquatic Botany* **130**: 21–26.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4968">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>**. **2021**.
*SylvanSeeds*, a seed germination database for temperate deciduous
forests. *Journal of Vegetation Science* **21**: e12960.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4965">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Carta A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mondoni A</span> *et al.*** **2021**. The
seed germination spectrum of alpine plants: a global meta-analysis. *New
Phytologist* **229**: 3573–3586.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2371">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jiménez-Alfaro B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bueno Á</span>**. **2017**. Comparative seed
germination traits in alpine and subalpine grasslands: higher elevations
are associated with warmer germination temperatures. *Plant Biology*
**19**: 32–40.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3480">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jiménez-Alfaro B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Díaz TE</span>**. **2013**. The temperature
dimension of the seed germination niche in fen wetlands. *Plant Ecology*
**214**: 489–499.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2865">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-Pascual E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pérez-Arcoiza A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Prieto JA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Díaz TE</span>**. **2017**. Environmental
filtering drives the shape and breadth of the seed germination niche in
coastal plant communities. *Annals of Botany* **119**: 1169–1177.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3063">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Finch-Savage WE</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Leubner-Metzger G</span>**. **2006**. Seed
dormancy and the control of germination. *New Phytologist* **171**:
501–523.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4996">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Finck P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Riecken U</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Schröder E</span>**. **2002**. Pasture
Landscapes and Nature Conservation — New strategies for the preservation
of open landscapes in Europe In: Redecker B, Härdtle W, Finck P, Riecken
U, Schröder E, eds. *Pasture Landscapes and Nature Conservation*.
Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer, 1–13.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1271">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Froud-Williams RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Drennan DSH</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Chancellor RJ</span>**. **1984**. The
influence of burial and dry-storage upon cyclic changes in dormancy,
germination and response to light in seeds of various arable weeds. *New
Phytologist* **96**: 473–481.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1205">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Froud-Williams RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Ferris R</span>**. **1987**. Germination of
proximal and distal seeds of *Poa trivialis* L. from contrasting
habitats. *Weed Research* **27**: 245–250.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1229">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Froud-Williams RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hilton JR</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dixon J</span>**. **1986**. Evidence for an
endogenous cycle of dormancy in dry stored seeds of *Poa trivialis* L.
*New Phytologist* **102**: 123–131.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5013">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Funes G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Basconcelo S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Díaz S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Cabido M</span>**. **1999**. Seed size and
shape are good predictors of seed persistence in soil in temperate
mountain grasslands of Argentina. *Seed Science Research* **9**:
341–345.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5030">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Golińska B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Czerwiński M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Goliński P</span>**. **2017**. Harvesting
seeds of an *Arrhenatherion* meadow as a source of propagation material
for grassland restoration. *Grassland resources for extensive farming
systems in marginal lands: major drivers and future scenarios.
Proceedings of the 19th Symposium of the European Grassland Federation*:
485–487.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN652">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Gresta F</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Avola G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Anastasi U</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Miano V</span>**. **2007**. Effect of
maturation stage, storage time and temperature on seed germination of
*Medicago* species. *Seed Science and Technology* **35**: 698–708.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4887">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Grime JP</span>**. **2006**. Trait
convergence and trait divergence in herbaceous plant communities:
mechanisms and consequences. *Journal of Vegetation Science* **17**:
255–260.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3273">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Grime JP</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mason G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Curtis AV</span> *et al.*** **1981**. A
comparative study of germination characteristics in a local flora.
*Journal of Ecology* **69**: 1017–1059.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4999">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Guadilla-Sáez S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pardo-de-Santayana M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Reyes-García V</span>**. **2019**. The role
of traditional management practices in shaping a diverse habitat mosaic
in a mountain region of Northern Spain. *Land Use Policy* **89**:
104235.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5063">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Guzzon F</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Orsenigo S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gianella M</span> *et al.*** **2018**. Seed
heteromorphy influences seed longevity in Aegilops. *Seed Science
Research* **28**: 277–285.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4755">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Hadfield JD</span>**. **2010**. MCMC
methods for multi-response generalized linear mixed models: the MCMCglmm
R package. *Journal of Statistical Software* **33**: 1–22.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN931">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Harris SM</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Doohan DJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gordon RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jensen KIN</span>**. **1998**. The effect of
thermal time and soil water on emergence of *Ranunculus repens*. *Weed
Research* **38**: 405–412.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4894">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Haslgrübler P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Krautzer B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Blaschka A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Graiss W</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pötsch EM</span>**. **2014**. Quality and
germination capacity of seed material harvested from an *Arrhenatherion*
meadow. *Grass and Forage Science* **69**: 454–461.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5045">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Hejcman M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hejcmanová P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pavlů V</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Beneš J</span>**. **2013**. Origin and
history of grasslands in Central Europe – a review. *Grass and Forage
Science* **68**: 345–363.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5026">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Hutchings MJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Booth KD</span>**. **1996**. Studies on the
feasibility of re-creating chalk grassland vegetation on ex-arable land.
I. The potential roles of the seed bank and the seed rain. *Journal of
Applied Ecology* **33**: 1171–1181.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5032">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Janicka M</span>**. **2017**. The
evaluation of soil seed bank in two *Arrhenatherion meadow* habitats in
central Poland. *Acta Scientiarum Polonorum Agricultura* **15**: 25–38.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN604">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jankowska-Blaszczuk M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Daws MI</span>**. **2007**. Impact of
red : far red ratios on germination of temperate forest herbs in
relation to shade tolerance, seed mass and persistence in the soil.
*Functional Ecology* **21**: 1055–1062.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1112">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jauzein P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mansour A</span>**. **1992**. Principaux
facteurs de la germination de *Heracleum sphondylium* L.: importance de
l’oxygène. *Agronomie* **12**: 85–96.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4666">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jiménez-Alfaro B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Frischie S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Stolz J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gálvez-Ramírez C</span>**. **2020**. Native
plants for greening Mediterranean agroecosystems. *Nature Plants* **6**:
209–214.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4753">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jin Y</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Qian H</span>**. **2019**. V.PhyloMaker: an
R package that can generate very large phylogenies for vascular plants.
*Ecography* **42**: 1353–1359.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1215">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jones DA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Turkington R</span>**. **1986**. *Lotus
corniculatus* L. *The Journal of Ecology* **74**: 1185–1212.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4719">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Jumpponen A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Väre H</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mattson KG</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Ohtonen R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Trappe JM</span>**. **1999**.
Characterization of “safe sites” for pioneers in primary succession on
recently deglaciated terrain. *Journal of Ecology* **87**: 98–105.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN460">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Kabouw P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Nab M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dam NM van</span>**. **2010**. Activated
carbon addition affects substrate pH and germination of six plant
species. *Soil Biology and Biochemistry* **42**: 1165–1167.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5025">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Kahmen S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Poschlod P</span>**. **2008**. Does
germination success differ with respect to seed mass and germination
season? Experimental testing of plant functional trait responses to
grassland management. *Annals of Botany* **101**: 541–548.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4766">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Karger DN</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Conrad O</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Böhner J</span> *et al.*** **2017**.
Climatologies at high resolution for the earth’s land surface areas.
*Scientific Data* **4**: 170122.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2319">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Kleyer M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bekker RM</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Knevel IC</span> *et al.*** **2008**. The
LEDA Traitbase: a database of life-history traits of the Northwest
European flora. *Journal of Ecology* **96**: 1266–1274.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4888">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Klimešová J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Janeček Š</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bartušková A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Lanta V</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Doležal J</span>**. **2010**. How is
regeneration of plants after mowing affected by shoot size in two
species-rich meadows with different water supply? *Folia Geobotanica*
**45**: 225–238.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN128">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Kolodziejek J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Patykowski J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Wala M</span>**. **2017**. Effect of light,
gibberellic acid and nitrogen source on germination of eight taxa from
dissapearing European temperate forest, *Potentillo albae-Quercetum*.
*Scientific Reports* **7**: 13924.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5031">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Krautzer B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Graiss W</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Haslgrübler P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Kirmer A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Tischew S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pötsch E</span>**. **2013**. Establishment
of *Arrhenatherion* meadows through on-site threshing material and green
hay transfer. *Grassland Science in Europe - The role of grasslands in a
green future*.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3073">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Kupferschmid AD</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Stampfli A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Newbery DM</span>**. **2000**. Dispersal and
microsite limitation in an abandoned calcareous grassland of the
southern Prealps. *Folia Geobotanica* **35**: 125–141.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2241">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Ladouceur E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jiménez-Alfaro B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Marin M</span> *et al.*** **2018**. Native
seed supply and the restoration species pool. *Conservation Letters*
**11**: e12381–e12381.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1015">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Letchamo W</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gosselin A</span>**. **1996**. Light,
temperature and duration of storage govern the germination and emergence
of *Taraxacum officinale* seed. *Journal of Horticultural Science*
**71**: 373–377.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3166">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Lê S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Josse J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Husson F</span>**. **2008**. FactoMineR: an
R package for multivariate analysis. *Journal of Statistical Software*
**25**: 1–18.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3763">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Li D-Z</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pritchard HW</span>**. **2009**. The science
and economics of *ex situ* plant conservation. *Trends in Plant Science*
**14**: 614–621.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN298">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Ludewig K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Zelle B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Eckstein RL</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mosner E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Otte A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Donath TW</span>**. **2014**. Differential
effects of reduced water potential on the germination of floodplain
grassland species indicative of wet and dry habitats. *Seed Science
Research* **24**: 49–61.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN881">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Marchiol L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Cesco S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pinton R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Zerbi G</span>**. **2000**. Germination and
initial root growth of four legumes as affected by landfill biogas
atmosphere. *Restoration Ecology* **8**: 93–98.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2236">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Marin M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Laverack G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Matthews S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Powell AA</span>**. **2019**. Germination
characteristics of *Rhinanthus minor* influence field emergence,
competitiveness and potential use in restoration projects. *Plant
Biology* **21**: 470–479.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4977">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Mariotte P</span>**. **2014**. Do
subordinate species punch above their weight? Evidence from above- and
below-ground. *New Phytologist* **203**: 16–21.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN120">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Masin R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Onofri A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gasparini V</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Zanin G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Gonzalez-Andujar J</span>**. **2017**. Can
alternating temperatures be used to estimate base temperature for seed
germination? *Weed Research* **57**: 390–398.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5041">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">McDonald AW</span>**. **1993**. The role
of seedbank and sown seeds in the restoration of an English
flood-meadow. *Journal of Vegetation Science* **4**: 395–400.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3507">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Merritt DJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dixon KW</span>**. **2011**. Restoration
seed banks—a matter of scale. *Science* **332**: 424–425.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1428">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Mezynski PR</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Cole DF</span>**. **1974**. Germination of
dandelion seed on a thermogradient plate. *Weed Science* **22**:
506–507.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5042">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Milberg P</span>**. **1992**. Seed bank in
a 35-year-old experiment with different treatments of a semi-natural
grassland. *Acta oecologica* **13**: 743–752.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4698">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Mucina L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bültmann H</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dierßen K</span> *et al.*** **2016**.
Vegetation of Europe: hierarchical floristic classification system of
vascular plant, bryophyte, lichen, and algal communities. *Applied
Vegetation Science* **19**: 3–264.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN632">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Nikolic R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mitic N</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Zivkovic S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Grubisic D</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Neskovic M</span>**. **2007**. Cytokinins
and urea derivatives stimulate seed germination in *Lotus corniculatus*
L. *Archives of Biological Sciences* **59**: 125–128.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN963">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Noronha A</span>**. **1997**. Rate of
change in dormancy level and light requirement in weed seeds during
stratification. *Annals of Botany* **80**: 795–801.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN372">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Oliveira G</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Nunes A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Clemente A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Correia O</span>**. **2012**. Testing
germination of species for hydroseeding degraded mediterranean areas.
*Restoration Ecology* **20**: 623–630.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1403">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Oomes MJM</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Elberse WT</span>**. **1976**. Germination
of six grassland herbs in microsites with different water contents. *The
Journal of Ecology* **64**: 745–755.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4757">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Pagel M</span>**. **1999**. Inferring the
historical patterns of biological evolution. *Nature* **401**: 877–884.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1261">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Pannangpetch K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bean EW</span>**. **1984**. Effects of
temperature on germination in populations of *Dactylis glomerata* from
NW Spain and Central Italy. *Annals of Botany* **53**: 633–639.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5000">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Pappalardo P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Ogle K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hamman EA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bence JR</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hungate BA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Osenberg CW</span>**. **2020**. Comparing
traditional and Bayesian approaches to ecological meta-analysis.
*Methods in Ecology and Evolution* **11**: 1286–1295.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3766">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Parmesan C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hanley ME</span>**. **2015**. Plants and
climate change: complexities and surprises. *Annals of Botany* **116**:
849–864.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2568">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Paulsen TR</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Colville L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Kranner I</span> *et al.*** **2013**.
Physical dormancy in seeds: a game of hide and seek? *New Phytologist*
**198**: 496–503.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5050">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Peco B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Lopez-Merino L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Alvir M</span>**. **2006**. Survival
and germination of Mediterranean grassland species after simulated
sheep ingestion: ecological correlates with seed traits. *Acta
Oecologica* **30**: 269–275.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN680">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Pérez-Fernández MA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Calvo-Magro E</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Montanero-Fernández J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Oyola-Velasco JA</span>**. **2006**. Seed
germination in response to chemicals: effect of nitrogen and pH in the
media. *Journal of Environmental Biology* **27**: 13–20.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN789">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Pérez-Fernández MA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Rodríguez-Echeverría S</span>**. **2003**.
Effect of smoke, charred wood, and nitrogenous compounds on seed
germination of ten species from woodland in central-western Spain.
*Journal of Chemical Ecology* **29**: 237–51.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5033">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Poschlod P</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Baumann A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Karlik P</span>**. **2009**. Origin and
development of grasslands in Central Europe In: Veen P, Jefferson R,
Smidt J de, J van der S, eds. *Grasslands in Europe*. KNNV Publishing,
15–25.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4998">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Prince HE</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bunce RGH</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jongman RHG</span>**. **2012**. Changes in
the vegetation composition of hay meadows between 1993 and 2009 in the
Picos de Europa and implications for nature conservation. *Journal for
Nature Conservation* **20**: 162–169.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1221">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Probert RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Smith RO</span>**. **1986**. The joint
action of phytochrome and alternating temperatures in the control of
seed germination in *Dactylis glomerata*. *Physiologia Plantarum*
**67**: 299–304.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1248">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Probert RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Smith RD</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Birch P</span>**. **1985**. Germination
responses to light and alternating temperatures in European populations
of *Dactylis glomerata* L. *New Phytologist* **100**: 447–455.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1230">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Probert RJ</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Smith RD</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Birch P</span>**. **1986**. Germination
responses to light and alternating temperatures in European populations
of *Dactylis glomerata* L.. V. the principle components of the
alternating temperature requirement. *New Phytologist* **102**: 133–142.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2315">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">R Core Team</span>**. **2020**. R: a
language and environment for statistical computing. Version 4.0.3.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5028">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Reiné R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Ascaso J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Barrantes O</span>**. **2020**. Nutritional
quality of plant species in Pyrenean hay meadows of high diversity.
*Agronomy* **10**: 883.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2980">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Rodríguez-Rojo MP</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Fernández-González F</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Tichý L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Chytrý M</span>**. **2014**. Vegetation
diversity of mesic grasslands (*Arrhenatheretalia*) in the Iberian
Peninsula. *Applied Vegetation Science* **17**: 780–796.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4893">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Rodríguez-Rojo MP</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jiménez-Alfaro B</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jandt U</span> *et al.*** **2017**.
Diversity of lowland hay meadows and pastures in Western and Central
Europe. *Applied Vegetation Science* **20**: 702–719.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2365">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Rosbakh S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Poschlod P</span>**. **2015**. Initial
temperature of seed germination as related to species occurrence along a
temperature gradient. *Functional Ecology* **29**: 5–14.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN2987">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew</span>**.
**2017**. Seed Information Database (SID). Version 7.1. Available from:
http://www.kew.org/data/sid (October 2017).

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4952">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Saatkamp A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Affre L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Baumberger T</span> *et al.*** **2011**.
Soil depth detection by seeds and diurnally fluctuating temperatures:
different dynamics in 10 annual plants. *Plant and Soil* **349**:
331–340.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4708">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Schneider CA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Rasband WS</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Eliceiri KW</span>**. **2012**. NIH Image to
ImageJ: 25 years of image analysis. *Nature Methods* **9**: 671–675.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1290">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Schonfeld MA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Chancellor RJ</span>**. **1983**. Factors
influencing seed movement and dormancy in grass seeds. *Grass and Forage
Science* **38**: 243–250.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5046">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Scotton M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Piccinin L</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dainese M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Sancin F</span>**. **2009**. Seed harvesting
for ecological restoration: efficiency of haymaking and seed-stripping
on different grassland types in the eastern Italian Alps. *Ecological
Restoration* **27**: 66–75.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1339">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Silvertown J</span>**. **1980**.
Leaf-canopy-induced seed dormancy in a grassland flora. *New
Phytologist* **85**: 109–118.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4754">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Smith SA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Brown JW</span>**. **2018**. Constructing a
broadly inclusive seed plant phylogeny. *American Journal of Botany*
**105**: 302–314.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5039">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Southon GE</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Jorgensen A</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Dunnett N</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hoyle H</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Evans KL</span>**. **2017**. Biodiverse
perennial meadows have aesthetic value and increase residents’
perceptions of site quality in urban green-space. *Landscape and Urban
Planning* **158**: 105–118.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5018">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Sprague V</span>**. **1940**. Germination
of freshly harvested seeds of several *Poa* species and of *Dactylis
glomerata*. *Journal of the American Society of Agronomy* **32**:
715–21.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN223">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Stanisavljevic R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Vuckovic S</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Strbanovic R</span> *et al.*** **2015**.
Enhancement of seed germination in three grass species using chemical
and temperature treatments. *Range Management and Agroforestry* **36**:
115–121.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN398">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Stanisavljevic R</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Ðjokic D</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Milenkovic J</span> *et al.*** **2011**.
Seed germination and seedling vigour of italian ryegrass, cocksfoot and
timothy following harvest and storage. *Ciência e Agrotecnologia*
**35**: 1141–1148.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN226">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Tavşanoğlu Ç</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Çatav ŞS</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Özüdoğru B</span>**. **2015**. Fire-related
germination and early seedling growth in 21 herbaceous species in
Central Anatolian steppe. *Journal of Arid Environments* **122**:
109–116.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4014">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Ter Borg SJ</span>**. **2005**. Dormancy
and germination of six *Rhinanthus* species in relation to climate.
*Folia Geobotanica* **40**: 243–260.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4909">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Tester M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Morris C</span>**. **1987**. The penetration
of light through soil. *Plant, Cell & Environment* **10**: 281–286.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1172">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Thompson K</span>**. **1989**. A
comparative study of germination responses to high irradiance light.
*Annals of Botany* **63**: 159–162.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5014">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Thompson K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Band SR</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Hodgson JG</span>**. **1993**. Seed size and
shape predict persistence in soil. *Functional Ecology* **7**: 236–241.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN3180">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Thompson K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Grime JP</span>**. **1983**. A comparative
study of germination responses to diurnally-fluctuating temperatures.
*Journal of Applied Ecology* **20**: 141–146.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1380">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Thompson K</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Grime JP</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Mason G</span>**. **1977**. Seed germination
in response to diurnal fluctuations of temperature. *Nature* **267**:
147–9.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5051">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Traba J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Levassor C</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Peco B</span>**. **2003**. Restoration of
species richness in abandoned mediterranean grasslands: seeds in cattle
dung. *Restoration Ecology* **11**: 378–384.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN780">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Van Assche JA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Debucquoy KLA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Rommens WAF</span>**. **2003**. Seasonal
cycles in the germination capacity of buried seeds of some Leguminosae
(Fabaceae). *New Phytologist* **158**: 315–323.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN5037">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Van Assche JA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Vandelook FEA</span>**. **2010**.
Combinational dormancy in winter annual Fabaceae. *Seed Science
Research* **20**: 237–242.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4910">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Van Assche JA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Vanlerberghe KA</span>**. **1989**. The role
of temperature on the dormancy cycle of seeds of *Rumex obtusifolius* L.
*Functional Ecology* **3**: 107–115.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN814">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Van Assche J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Van Nerum D</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Darius P</span>**. **2002**. The comparative
germination ecology of nine *Rumex* species. *Plant Ecology* **159**:
131–142.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4929">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Venn SE</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Morgan JW</span>**. **2010**. Soil seedbank
composition and dynamics across alpine summits in south-eastern
Australia. *Australian Journal of Botany* **58**: 349–362.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN416">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Wagner M</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Pywell RF</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Knopp T</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Bullock JM</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Heard MS</span>**. **2011**. The germination
niches of grassland species targeted for restoration: effects of seed
pre-treatments. *Seed Science Research* **21**: 117–131.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4912">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Wang Y</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Wang J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Lai L</span> *et al.*** **2014**. Geographic
variation in seed traits within and among forty-two species of
*Rhododendron* (Ericaceae) on the Tibetan plateau: relationships with
altitude, habitat, plant height, and phylogeny. *Ecology and Evolution*
**4**: 1913–1923.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1276">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Washitani I</span>**. **1984**.
Germination responses of a seed population of *Taraxacum officinale*
Weber to constant temperatures including the supra-optimal range. *Plant
Cell and Environment* **7**: 655–659.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN334">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Wille W</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Thiele J</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Walker EA</span>,
<span class="csl-no-strong">Kollmann J</span>**. **2013**. Limited
evidence for allelopathic effects of giant hogweed on germination of
native herbs. *Seed Science Research* **23**: 157–162.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1281">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Williams ED</span>**. **1983a**.
Germinability and enforced dormancy in seeds of species of indigenous
grassland. *Annals of Applied Biology* **102**: 557–566.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1292">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Williams ED</span>**. **1983b**. Effects
of temperature fluctuation, red and far-red light and nitrate on seed
germination of five grasses. *The Journal of Applied Ecology* **20**:
923–935.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN1280">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Williams ED</span>**. **1983c**. Effects
of temperature, light, nitrate and pre chilling on seed germination of
grassland plants. *Annals of Applied Biology* **103**: 161–172.

</div>

<div id="ref-RN4709">

**<span class="csl-no-strong">Zelený D</span>**. **2018**. Which results
of the standard test for community‐weighted mean approach are too
optimistic? *Journal of Vegetation Science* **29**: 953–966.

</div>

</div>
